rurrooucrrou. ix

as do also b c effflq and syr. a is wanting. d reads urrdieruut,
and only the Graeco-Latin δ supports r² with eradicata
The Greek has two present participles: και aa δυο rodker

καθημενοι παρα την odor, ακουσαντες οτι Ιησους παραγει, which the

Latius render: Et ecce duo caeci sedentes secus viam audierunt quia
jesus transiret. (s has at audierunt.)

Here then ry and δ alone reveal their literal Graeco-Latin or
polyglot origin.

Arm aetla syr and salz support the Latin perfect, while bola follows
the Greek participle ζ Gora wanting).

Itis an interesting place, for while the Graeco-Latin D abandons
theGreek ακουσαντες ol all others lor ηκουσαν (evidently retranslation
from his Latin andra ruat) the Latins are here practically a unit, but
for η and δ.

blatt. xxvi. 3. Another polyglot-place, where for dicebatur r2 has
vacabatur (Gr. του λεγομενου) this time With r μ. =

The Graeco-Latius d ὃ have dicitur, but all the other Old Latius
ubffg lq and Vulgates dicebatur, except c ga “ vocatur.” [ak not
extant]

The versions naturally ¹favour uocabatur, although syr sin omits
“who was called Caiaphas.” ’ .

Matt. xxvi. 47 - venit η So Chrys codd. Might well be basic.

ltlatt. xxvii. 24 -Ι- suas (post manus) against Gk. τας χειρας, but in
theSyriac manner. Quite a number of Latius support.

blank.
A little point occurs early at·-

Mark i. 17 — eis, which again points to an original Gracc-Latin, αντοισ lost before
o Γσ, although the known Greeks do not favour this.

Cf. Luke xviii. 27 -lihs post eis with rnost aar and some Greeks.

Cf. also Luke xviii. 39 ei pro euru pau increpabant with the Greek αὐτῷ,

So at John ix. a ν2 adds diceutes with Arnobius and the Greek against the
Latius.

As to: Mark i. 39 in sinagoga (pro in sinagogis) is 'not the Syriae reading, but
should be considered in connection with Mark xiv. 26 oliveti l pro olivarum),
and with Luke iv. 40 inanum (pro manus) with b y μ syr. [On the other
side, elsewhere are to be noted radicas and ωριτες by ry against the usual
singulae]

 

