INTRODUCTION. V

incorrectly written as would be jodged fr‘orn a mere inspection of
variants. In fact the scribes are rather above the average as
copyists. But Ι can disengage no system whatever3 the exigeneies
of space have apparently nothing whatever to do with the character '¹
of the abbreviations. Per, however, and ter are more generally
written p and i than not, and that in the parts of integral
words as opa (opera), mi (inter), intrrogauit (interrogauit), and
so forth.

Abbreviations, while very common, are not often open to doubtful
interpretations. We must, however, be careful to distinguish
between d (ytrite) and ᾗ (artent). The scribe is perfectly reliable as

to the differentiation,¹ and also q (yreia) arrd q(qrrrrrn)‚ to which the ·

same remark applies with ,sorne reservations. Quae is also written
q:·, and inore generally· than q. fn words‘like parueritis the
practice is to write q:urrrs, and this q: stands for qne. 1 have not
recorded every such variation in the collation as this qne really rnay ’

stand for qrtne. The sarne synrbol :always stands forterrninal ns,

but Ι do not think any case occurs where ecau be confused with os
from this practice.

A record of the spelling of the scribe is ineresting fronr an
ethnological point of view. The broad pronunciation of do is twice
shown by its being written dno (Lulre iv. 6, xix. 8). Note also nocaa
(Luhe xiv. 13), parata (Lulre xvii. 8), pertractant (Mark vi. 56), as
well as prora, plectro, canno, irratam, replente, projecto, and eoscos or
rascas (for escas), also plrtrrsqnora (twice), uiis pro vis (Mark vi. aa).
Sicut is once (Luhe x. rs) written strata. This broad Northern lisp
is confirmed at Luke xiv. 5 by petraeam (for paterna). Note further
plzarclzo, although not uniformly‚ and the nearly uniform ααίαναα. . .
for adparet. .. Also chortentfor cohortem. Ραααίία nray also be
observed, and u for· o as in furo (for firm), agricola (for agricola),
parabata (for parabola), the latter throughout. Occasionally the

· reverse occurs as in geno yfexo (for genu flexo) and sardos (for
surdas).

Resides capud and talne, nole at Luhe xvii. 31 ααίνα (for retro). .

 

