INTRODUCTION·

Maru.

xii. 35 >scribe quomodo dicunt (pro quomodo dicunt scribae) r2 solus. But
so perr (against syr rire, torpeat, syr frier).
This is very striking, and rules out a mere coincidence between rz and
pers in the instances cited previously.

On the other hand the apparently deliberate omissions by r2 of
tunc at both xiii. ar and xiii. ²7 do not appear to have the
countenance of the pers or the syr.

The only authority for omission of runc in verse 21 had been bola
(which Heraea forgets to mention in the sat volume). Sodeo quotes
c² and tot, but as Ι do not think he had crecollated this c² must be
a mistalre for r2. lf so it completely spoils the picture, for in his
note at xiii. 27 he correctly records r2 for - runc there, and adds

ΙΜΒΞΣ. So, at :-

xiii. 21 - τοτε r² bola
27 -rorer2 ΣΕῐ
riu. 35 lt may be onlya coincidence, but fu here has the perfect orauit (so
petrini) against the imperfect by all other Latine. .
riu. 57 -e ruit. So l'u aud vgiP. See also perr.
riv. 60 -et init, So aandagst. ‚‚ ‚‚ ‚‚

} seem to be the only‘witnesses at present.

}'contra syrr et rell.

This matter of copulas in η is ’ important for my claim that some ,
of the text of ν2 antedates its sister k. For in all the places cited
above η remains without the support of k. Now in:—

xv. 9 — autern by η [noo lc] is supported not only by syr sin but confirmed ·
agam by pers.

uvi. 8 fio. >enirn timebunt by rss alone for >timebant enim and the famous
ἐφοβοῦντο γαρ. Compare as to the r·2 order syr sira and pers.

Luun.

xi. 22 spolia ejus diripiet et distribuet ry. This -l-dz'rz'pt'et et is an addition Ι

⁴ not found in others (Gk. διαδιδωσιν), The syriae ‘sin makes it
reflexiye “se dividit,¹¹ but prasini bas “tuuc facultates ejus diripiet ¹’
as Moling “dirupiet '' for ‘¹ distribuet.” ·
xi. 33 For the ÷ponit after Candelabrum add pers to νη audvsyr cu rr'n.
(xii. 56 discernere (pro probare or δοκιμαζειν) by r² = tyr pasl, while syr rin
differentiates between probare aud discernitis later. Pers partially
couflates in the first place “status caeli ac terrae nostis et a se

inuicem discernitis ¹¹ continuiug “quomodo hoc tempus non potestis
discernere.¹')

 

